---
layout: post
subtitle: Camp competitions, air mattresses, and punts so bad they're good
---

Our second NFL punter interview was with Lions All-Pro Jack Fox. We enjoyed hearing about his journey to the NFL, and we're excited to share it with you!

***The Punt Runts: What was it like transitioning from small-scale college football at Rice to the NFL, and then becoming sort of a phenom at the beginning of this year?***

**Jack Fox:** It was really hard. So my first year coming out of college, I was signed by the Chiefs. I was competing with Dustin Colquitt, and I just wasn't ready mentally or physically. My operation times weren't fast enough, so the coaches were constantly telling me to hurry up, and I wasn't punting very well. Mentally, I didn't really know if I really belonged. First of all, anywhere in the NFL, it’s hard to play as a rookie, but especially in Kansas City, when you have Travis Kelce, Mahomes, all those guys. They're killing it, and I’m like, shit, do I really belong in the same locker room as these guys?

So I really struggled my first year, and then after I got cut from Kansas City in the preseason, I just went home and just started punting by myself and whatever, and kind of figured it out mentally. I was punting with more of a mindset of just trying to kick the ball as hard as I can, and like, I don't care if I mess up. You know, if I go down, I’m gonna go down swinging.

So then I had a workout with the Lions the Monday after Thanksgiving. I went in with that mindset, like, I’m just going to kick as hard as I can, and I punted really well, and they signed me to the practice squad, and I was on the practice squad for the last four weeks of that season. That made me feel comfortable being in the locker room with the Lions, knowing the coaches, so I think that helped me out a lot.

***The Punt Runts: What was it like to then, the next season, win a punting competition in training camp?***

**Jack Fox:** The next step was crazy, with quarantine and everything. I went home to St. Louis in the offseason, and my coach I was working with in St Louis just had a baby, so he was quarantined, and wasn’t doing anything outside of his house. So at that time I’m like, what am I going to do? I've got a couple punting friends, [Raiders punter] AJ Cole, [Chargers punter] Ty Long, and [free agent] Tyler Newsome, and they were all in Birmingham, Alabama working together. I saw they posted a story on instagram of them punting together, and I remember being on the practice field in St Louis punting by myself, mad that I don't know what I'm going to do.

And so I call AJ and I'm like, dude, can I come down to Birmingham and train with you guys for a little bit? He was like yeah, of course, and I went down there. I slept on the couch for a week, and I realized that was the place I had to be. So I ended up buying an air mattress and living in their living room on an air mattress for like three months last offseason. We just had a small apartment, and I appreciated it, they just made me pay like 200 bucks a month to live in the living room.

And it was really good. We had a jugs machine in the backyard to catch snaps, it was 100% punting all the time during quarantine. We had nothing else to do anyway. Really just competing against other guys that are really good like that, kind of helped me mentally feel like I belong, and I can compete against whoever. So that really helped me win the competition in Detroit.

***The Punt Runts: When you say you’re competing against guys like this, obviously it's not as if you were a wide receiver going against cornerbacks, so what is that competition like?***

**Jack Fox:** Yeah, first of all, when you go out there and punt, even if you're not directly competing, you can kind of tell who's beating who. And we get hang time, distance, all of that.

But we also play games - so like, every day, we play “forty-five four five”. If you hit it 45 yards, 4.5 second hang time, and outside of the numbers, that's a point, and it's maybe first guy to five points. So once you start competing like that, and at the end of the game maybe someone has five, someone has four, and another guy has one, you can really start exposing guys. Like, you don't want to be the guy who has one.

And that was really cool, being around that many good punters, because there'll be days, most days, I'd be the third best guy out there. And then I’d be like, shit, I really got to work on this stuff.

***The Punt Runts: What was the biggest improvement for you during that quarantine time?***

**Jack Fox:** I think my hands got a lot better. People don't think about punting using your hands a lot, but just catching the ball and getting the ball from your hands to your feet in the right spot every time, it's so important. You can't hit a good punt consistently if your hands aren't good, and I don't think my hands were consistently fast enough and smooth enough before the quarantine. But like I said, we had a jugs machine, so I’d catch jugs every day. I was just more confident, catching the ball and setting it and getting it to my foot every time.

***The Punt Runts: What was a punter competition like in camp? Was it different from those competitions among punters?***

**Jack Fox:** Yeah, I think different coaches do it different ways. When I competed against [now Eagles punter] Arryn [Siposs] in Detroit, they would chart all of our punts from practice and then write them out. We’d get a sheet of paper with all the numbers on it before every practice, saying who had better hang time, distance, operation time, direction. They made it known who was beating who, throughout camp. They were really transparent about that.

***The Punt Runts: Tell us a little bit about how many different punts you have, and what's on your mind when you're walking onto the field, what you're trying to do.***

**Jack Fox:** In the open field, I have a spiral right - last season I mostly went spiral right - or I do a kind of, walk right across my body and try to spiral to the left. Spiral right was probably my most consistent punt, but you can’t go one direction every time. So like, if I saw two guys on the right gunner, we would try to go left. My swinging across my body punt is more of an all-or-nothing type punt. Like, if I hit it well, it's going to go 60+ yards, like five seconds hang time. But if I don't, it's going to be a tumbler that goes 35 yards. 

Which isn't always a bad thing. You obviously want good hang time, good distance, but if you hit it bad enough, the ball’s gonna hit the ground and roll forward. The worst punts in my mind are like, 40-45 yards, 3.5-4.0 seconds hang time, because those, they're going to catch the ball, and they're gonna have plenty of space to return. But if you hit a 30 yard, like, 3.3, they’re not gonna touch it … it's just too shitty of a punt. I don't think coaches want to hear that, but that’s just kinda what it is.

***The Punt Runts: Do you have a favorite punt from last season?***

**Jack Fox:** My second punt, in my second game, against Green Bay, it was the end of the first half, and we were sacked or something inside our five yard line. At this point, I was still... I was nervous every game, but I was super nervous in the second game. Especially without a preseason, I felt like I had to prove myself a little more.

Going into the punt, I wanted to go right, but they had two guys in the right, and I hadn't hit a crossfield punt, a walk right hit left, to this point. And I was like, screw it, I’m gonna do it. And I did it, and it was a good punt, fair catch. It was the biggest sigh of relief punt I’ve had, so that's probably my favorite one. I had a few favorites, and a few that I wanted back.

*Note: That punt was, in fact, excellent. It was especially good on account of being a fair catch; it had a SHARP (Gross-based) of 107, e.g. 7% longer than average, but had a whopping SHARPnet of 137! It also clocked in with a Punt Runts EPA of 1.04, which is insane, though it was actually only Fox's 4th best punt by EPA. Watch the punt [here](https://youtu.be/-iRwoP8IlfI?t=95) or read more about our metrics [here](https://puntalytics.github.io/metrics.html)*

***The Punt Runts: One of our big things in making our metrics is trying to [“exonerate” punters for long returns](https://www.opensourcefootball.com/posts/2020-08-21-rerun-exonerating-punters-for-large-returns/). What are your thoughts about that? Do you ever have a returner rip off a long return and you're like, man, I did everything I could there, that wasn't my fault.***

**Jack Fox:** Yeah, absolutely. Like, part of it’s your fault, it can be the punter’s fault, but it also might not be.

Statistically, my best punt of the season was against the Saints, and they have Deonte Harris, he's a beast. I hit like a 57 yard, 5.4 second hang time, like, my best punt of the season, and it was like two yards from the sideline. And he shook the first guy, our gunner missed a tackle right away, and he ran like 25 yards up the sideline. That was my longest return of the year...on my best punt of the year. I mean, obviously if you kick a ball right down the middle, like, that's on the punter.

*Note: This punt had a SHARPnet of 79.8 (way below average!), but a SHARP-RERUN (adjusting for return) of 104.4. This is a superb example of the kind of punt that inspired our RERUN metric. Watch it [here](https://youtu.be/z6-QNcLg3Ug?t=293).*

***The Punt Runts: What’s a misconception people have about punters?***

**Jack Fox:** I want people to realize that we're not really the weirdest position on the field. Like, personality-wise we're not the weirdest person on the field…that's the long snapper. They're the weirdest by far. We're not like the coolest out there, but we're not the weirdest. So that’s what I want people to know.

I think the coolest thing about punters, especially in the NFL, is like, we all, for the most part, root for each other. We say we don't pray on other people's downfalls...that sounds super corny, but I never root against somebody. First of all, I think that's bad Karma, and second of all, I don't want anybody rooting against me. Everybody's been there, we've all had a bad punt.

So even the guys that I don't necessarily hang out with, I never root against them and like, that's I think my biggest thing.  And I think a lot of us are like that, we all root for each other. We compete against each other, but we all root for each other, and we all know each other.

***The Punt Runts: Do you watch football games for the punts?***

**Jack Fox:** Yeah, I do, and that's why RedZone sucks

***The Punt Runts: BlueZone forever!***

**Jack Fox:** We need a BlueZone. Maybe you guys should do that.

***The Punt Runts: It's definitely ruined watching football for us, because you're hoping that every drive stalls out around midfield.***

**Jack Fox:** Yeah, it sucks. And not even around midfield, I wanna see like, long punts. I like the pin-inside-the-five punts too, but I want to see the long punts. Those are more fun to me.

***The Punt Runts: Do you have any punter role models?***

**Jack Fox:** Johnny Hekker was my favorite. I’m from St Louis, and I think he got picked up by the Rams when I was a sophomore in high school, and that's right when I got into punting.

He played quarterback in high school, I played quarterback in high school, they ran a bunch of fakes, I haven’t run fakes yet, but hopefully one day we do.

***The Punt Runts: We have to ask you about the Drunk Jack Fox account, who said recently:  
<blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-conversation="none" data-theme="light"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">The only thing I’ve been doing this off-season is throwing back beer and single leg squatting on my punting leg so expect big things from me <a href="https://twitter.com/ThePuntRunts?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">@ThePuntRunts</a></p>&mdash; Drunk Jack Fox (@DrunkJackyF) <a href="https://twitter.com/DrunkJackyF/status/1395771355874873347?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">May 21, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>  
  
***Can you confirm or deny that?***

**Jack Fox:** I can't confirm or deny, but I have done both. I’ve done more than just those two things, but I have done both of them.

**Don't miss out on all the exciting punterview and puntalytics content to come - be sure to follow the Punt Runts on Twitter.  
<a href="https://twitter.com/ThePuntRunts?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw" class="twitter-follow-button" data-show-count="false">Follow @ThePuntRunts</a><script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>  
